---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hi I am Sarah, mom of 2 kiddos, best home chef award winner (well by my husband and daughter), I love movies and music and a good daily laugh, I also happen to be an experienced Industrial Engineer . I love remodeling projects, fresh starts I guess is what gets me excited whether it's a home renovation project or a task at work that could be done better and faster. Organized spaces and to do lists keep me focused. Here is what I have been cooking for the past 11 years:

**Manufacturing world:** I started in a traditional manufacturing environment in Abingdon VA , fresh out of school, will always be grateful for the VP of manufacturing (Keith) that took a shot on me with my very little experience. I built a lot of meaningful connections there with operators doing the day to day jobs that were not easy, lots of ergonomic issues that could fail body parts as they were repetitive and hard. I worked with the KAIZEN team on improving the way we did thigs there. providing more modern tools and changing our manufacturing line (think Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times) to a new cellular manufacturing line where one piece flow would help us build the compressor from start to finish in a U shaped cell. All tools were available right there within arm reach , pre kitted parts ready to go using a 5S model , and rotation of operators built in so you wouldn't do the same task for 10 hours each day and would move to a different task each hour. I am proud of the work I did there that improved lives, made me humble and it was right there where I developed the skill of connecting with the real heroes that keep all companies running without the ego or big paychecks. unfortunately Bristol compressors went out of business in 2018 couple years after I left.

We then moved to St Louis where I joined **SunEdison Semiconductor**, high tech manufacturing of silicon on insulator wafers that later would became the base for making microprocessors. I learned to get into the bunny suit in a clean room environment and put my OR skills to use. I was the only industrial engineer and wore many hats. from time studies and line balancing efforts that needed building labor models to leading KAIZEN events and developing capacity models. we needed to know based on the incoming demand if our tools (in Semi tools refers to machinery) were enough or did we have to invest in more tools to meet fluctuating demand. I made interactive Excel based models that would help us see what would happen in different scenarios. We also had inefficiencies on the floor from long distances that techs had to walk to get what they needed to WIP build up. Spaghetti diagrams were eye opening and Value stream mapping effort helped us find and fix many issues in the cleanroom. I got to work with many smart people there. Big layoff, cost center cancellation and I moved to next chapter in my career.

**Procter and Gamble** made Cascade pods in St louis plant. It was my first time learning about Unions. I  built relationships with our techs that have still continued after 5 years. There was a big focus on Lean manufacturing at P&G , they even had come up with their own name for it, called it Integrated Work Systems (IWS). As a Manufacturing Engineer I had to learn the equipment that I owned inside and out down to what a solenoid or photo eye was on the equipment and how it functioned and impacted the whole equipment. I started on the bag lines basically the lines that would put the pods in a bag you see put on the store shelves as well as the downstream equipment that made the pods known as a converter. lots of daily data analysis, understanding why things are not working how they are supposed to and fixing them for good not just on the existing line but all other lines. Documenting every step so it would be easy to go back and quickly fix things if they ever repeated themselves. One big project I worked on was to stop us from giving away free pouches to customers to comply with weight requirements, a new sensitive weight checker on each line and BOOM , no more free pods for customers. I know how that sounds in eyes of a consumer but corporate was happy with the cost saving results. I did many bootcamps and trained our technicians on safety and quality as well as on IWS concepts which kept the factory running day in and day out. We then decided to move to Pacific Northwest for the beautiful weather and sceneries.

I joined **Intel** which I grew up adoring its shiny "Intel core" tag on computers I got to use. I was hired to build capacity models for tactical and long term periods. We started with an empty building that was filled with over 100 tools (machines) and making sure we bring the right tools in at the right time and put them in the right place, the core of this entire picture was the capacity models I built. Lots of collaboration was needed with demand planning group to layout to scheduling and finance to make sure we buy what we needed at the right time and set it in the right layout location with no delays. 5 years later I knew it was a job well done when we had no capacity shortfall to our predicted demand. Hours of coordination and simulation went into play as well as ordering the tools on time which I managed that system too. we later on moved to assessing equipment efficiency and performance tracking after all tools were up and running. When a capacity gap was identified on a bottleneck tool we worked with engineering and group leaders to come up with projects to close gaps. In the past year I started learning about tools that could help us move away from using satellite Excel sheets into more efficient and automated systems that will save valuable engineer time and redirect effort where its more needed. I developed Python based codes that helped us retrieve and analyze data quickly and communicate directly with the internal databases via Python without the need for a middle man homebrew software. 

**Where do I want to go next:** I love manufacturing and will always enjoy being an individual contributor chipping in for making great products whether its a memory chip or a chocolate chip. I  have a passion for good design, always have been amazed by products that were developed right with the needs of the consumer in mind whether they wanted it or didn't know they want it. Think of that customer emailing companies for design enhancement... I am that customer. I have been learning about product management, where the entire goal of a system is to make perfect user friendly products that customers will love. I think all the experience I have in manufacturing and seeing how the entire supply chain interacts paired with my extrovert personality and working easily with different backgrounds can help me grow in a manufacturing leadership or product management role. 